feat(K8s): Updated the introduction page (#17689)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/get-started/introduction-kubernetes-integration.mdx

freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

import kubernetesClusterExplorer from 'images/kubernetes_screenshot-crop_cluster-explorer.webp'

import kubernetesDashboard from 'images/kubernetes_screenshot-full_dashboard.webp'

import kubernetesEvents from 'images/kubernetes_screenshot-full_events.gif'

Kubernetes is an open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. The New Relic Kubernetes monitoring integration gives you a quick and easy way to see what's going on with your Kubernetes clusters and workloads, whether they're hosted on-premises or in the cloud.

> Once you've got the [Kubernetes integration up and running](/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/installation/kubernetes-integration-install-configure/), you can start monitoring all the services running on Kubernetes in one place with to our [cluster explorer](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/cluster-explorer/kubernetes-cluster-explorer). It'll show you everything from the heights of the control plane down to applications running on a single pod, so you can get to the heart of how your cluster is performing.

Reviewer: Should we use a more generic term to refer to our K8s UIs?
Instead of "cluster explorer" I would recommend something like "Kubernetes curated experiences" or "Kubernetes out-of-the-box experiences"

The page linked not only refer to the K8s navigator but to other UIs.

Remember that the cluster explorer refers to the old UI we want to deprecate soon (the one represented in a circular way)

    <img
    title="New Relic - Kubernetes Cluster Explorer"
    alt="New Relic - Kubernetes Cluster Explorer"
    src={kubernetesClusterExplorer}
    />

    <figcaption>
    Go to <DoNotTranslate>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Kubernetes**</DoNotTranslate> and choose your cluster. The cluster explorer is our handy, all-in-one solution for all your Kubernetes needs when you're running at large scale.
    </figcaption>
    

> ## Why it matters [#features]

Reviewer: Are we missing an "?" ?

Take a look at what you can do with New Relic:

* You can monitor the [Kubernetes control plane](/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/advanced-configuration/configure-control-plane-monitoring) to manage and collect metrics from your clusters.

* You can [forward your Kubernetes logs](/docs/logs/forward-logs/kubernetes-plugin-log-forwarding/) to New Relic, which will give you more ways to manage your log data. You can collect, process, explore, query, and alert on your log data.

* You can build your own charts and [query](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/query-new-relic-data) all your [Kubernetes data](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/understand-use-data/find-use-your-kubernetes-data) that our integration collects by instrumenting the container orchestration layer. This gives you more insight into nodes, namespaces, deployments, replica sets, pods, and containers.

* You can [link your APM data to Kubernetes](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/link-your-applications/link-your-applications-kubernetes) to measure how well your web and mobile apps are performing. You can track things like request rate, throughput, error rate, and availability.

> * You can [monitor services running on Kubernetes](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/link-apps-services/monitor-services-running-kubernetes), like Apache, NGINX, Cassandra, and many more. Check out our [tutorial for monitoring Redis on Kubernetes](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/link-apps-services/tutorial-monitor-redis-running-kubernetes).

Reviewer: I would add another point after this one

* You can easily scrape Prometheus metrics from any workload in the cluster thanks to the service discovery provided by the [Prometheus Agent](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/infrastructure/prometheus-integrations/get-started/send-prometheus-metric-data-new-relic/#Agent).

freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

import kubernetesClusterExplorer from 'images/kubernetes_screenshot-crop_cluster-explorer.webp'

import kubernetesDashboard from 'images/kubernetes_screenshot-full_dashboard.webp'

import kubernetesEvents from 'images/kubernetes_screenshot-full_events.gif'

> Kubernetes is an open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. The New Relic Kubernetes monitoring integration gives you a quick and easy way to see what's going on with your Kubernetes clusters and workloads, whether they're hosted on-premises or in the cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes is an open-source tool for automating deployments, scaling, and managing containerized applications. The New Relic Kubernetes monitoring integration gives you a quick and easy way to see what's going on with your Kubernetes clusters and workloads, whether they're hosted on-premises or in the cloud.
```

> Once you've got the [Kubernetes integration up and running](/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/installation/kubernetes-integration-install-configure/), you can start monitoring all the services running on Kubernetes in one place with to our [Kubernetes out-of-the-box experiences](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/cluster-explorer/kubernetes-cluster-explorer). It'll show you everything from the heights of the control plane down to applications running on a single pod, so you can get to the heart of how your cluster is performing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you've got the [Kubernetes integration up and running](/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/installation/kubernetes-integration-install-configure/), you can start monitoring all the services running on Kubernetes in one place with our [Kubernetes out-of-the-box experiences](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/cluster-explorer/kubernetes-cluster-explorer). It'll show you everything from the heights of the control plane down to applications running on a single pod, so you can get to the heart of how your cluster is performing.
```

Reviewer 2: "From the heights" feels a little awkward. What you're trying to get at is that you can see the entire system from a holistic perspective as well as with a focus on the minute. Can you rewrite this to focus on the different views and perspectives New Relic offers without the image (even though don't get me wrong, I love a good image!)

Author: Thank you, Sammie. I'm going to replace the last sentence with this:
`It shows you everything from the top of the control plane down to the applications running on a single pod, so you can get to the heart of how your cluster works.`
I can't add the different views and remove the image for now, but it's a good idea and I'll do it soon.

> Once you've got the [Kubernetes integration up and running](/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/installation/kubernetes-integration-install-configure/), you can start monitoring all the services running on Kubernetes in one place with to our [Kubernetes out-of-the-box experiences](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/cluster-explorer/kubernetes-cluster-explorer). It'll show you everything from the heights of the control plane down to applications running on a single pod, so you can get to the heart of how your cluster is performing.

Reviewer 2: I have gotten feedback from the field that we link to other docs too frequently- and I agree! I think you should remove these doc links and add them as a "What's Next" at the end.

Author: I already have a `Choose your next step` section. This is a description of what you can do with our platform because this is the introduction page.

    <img
    title="New Relic - Kubernetes Cluster Explorer"
    alt="New Relic - Kubernetes Cluster Explorer"
    src={kubernetesClusterExplorer}
    />

    <figcaption>
    Go to <DoNotTranslate>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Kubernetes**</DoNotTranslate> and choose your cluster. The cluster explorer is our handy, all-in-one solution for all your Kubernetes needs when you're running at large scale.
    </figcaption>
    

## Monitoring Kubernetes with New Relic [#monitoring-k8s-nr]

Managing Kubernetes can be tough. There's a lot going on all the time, with containers being created and deleted in minutes, apps crashing, and resources being used in unexpected ways. Our integration helps you figure out how to use Kubernetes in different ways, whether you're using it on-premises, in the cloud, or in a hybrid setup.

Take a look at what you can do with New Relic:

* You can monitor the [Kubernetes control plane](/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/advanced-configuration/configure-control-plane-monitoring) to manage and collect metrics from your clusters.

> * You can [forward your Kubernetes logs](/docs/logs/forward-logs/kubernetes-plugin-log-forwarding/) to New Relic, which will give you more ways to manage your log data. You can collect, process, explore, query, and alert on your log data.

Reviewer 2: Can you rewrite these to eliminate the "You can" and instead use an action verb that provides a value proposition?  Like, "Collect, process, explore, query, and alert on your log day through Kubernetes logs"

These features are in addition to the data New Relic already reports for [containerized processes running on instrumented hosts](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/data-instrumentation/docker-instrumentation-infrastructure).

## Check the source code [#source-code]

This integration is open source software. That means you can [browse its source code](https://github.com/newrelic/nri-kubernetes) and send in your own improvements, or you can create your own fork and build it. For more information, check out the [README](https://github.com/newrelic/nri-kubernetes/blob/main/README.md) file.

<Callout variant="tip">
Are you using Datadog to monitor Kubernetes but want to try out New Relic's monitoring capabilities for free? See our guide on [how to migrate from Datadog](/docs/journey-migration/migrating-from-dd/) to learn more.
</Callout>

> ## Choose your next step [#next-step]

Reviewer: as next steps I would recommend adding the "Installation of the integration" as the first one
